Now let's talk about where the convolution
neural networks is looking,
where the making a prediction.
And I will actually introduce another
concept of transfer learning.
So with the transfer learning what you
can do, you can simply grab already
trained models and
load them in your notebooks.
So skipping all the training parts,
somebody else already did that job for
you and probably used tons of GPU compute,
just the training module.
And you can simply download it explicitly
for instance by using karas applications,
VGG16 it's specifically
one of the architectures.
So let me quickly load it.
And we can probably even try
to say something like model
summary, to find out more
about this architecture.
So you can see it's actually taking 24 by
24 images with three channels, RGB, right?
And doing a lot of convolutions,
so we're actually
doing two convolutions in the sequence and
only after that we're doing max pooling.
And you see that there are a lot
of convolutions happening here and
when we're reducing everything,
almost to 7 by 7 filters, right?
And only after that flattened image and
our last two fully connected layers.
We'll reduce everything to those thousands
neurons which corresponds to the classes.
Remember, in image net I
said that we're trying
to recognize between
1,000 different objects.
So that's why we need 1000
neurons at the lowest layer.
But when we initialize that's when we grab
this VGG class from Kerris applications.
We also can say that I want my model
to load not the random weights,
I won't actually grab the weights
which have been trained on image net.
So basically, I will already by having
this small, I can do prediction directly.
I just need to provide image 224 by 224
pixels and color image, and that's what
I will be showing you how to do next.
So with this command, I'm just simply
downloading image of elephant.
I can even visualize it here if you want,
and
they can use mark down directly for this.
So with the mark down to
visualize image allophones
I need just to say, read if out [LAUGH].
It's not actually after
completing in mark down but
I can just copy/paste the name of
the file, I've just downloaded.
And that's the image
we will be processing.
Just beautiful picture of two elephants
under creative commons license,
which is good for me.
And what we'll do first we need to change
the resolution of our image, right?
So that's what I'm doing here,
image load image,
I'm just loading it's using image
from Keras pre processing, right?
So basically, these class on their
tensorflow Keras pre processing image,
is got its own function load image
from a particular location, right?
From the file, store.
And it can actually changed
the resolution of the image on the fly
while loading it so
we converted it to 224 by 224.
Right here, I'm just converting image to
the array and adding additional array.
Once again, our model
assume that we will be providing
multiple images as the input, right?
But if I want just to provide one,
I still need to create a list with only
one image inside so
that's what I'm doing here.
And preprocess input
is probably just doing
the, I'm actually not exactly
sure what is the doing,
preprocessing, preprocessing,
I don't think it was defined anywhere.
The main part of this code is just simply
converting our image to this resolution,
preprocesin input is part of the VGG.
So it's basically doing
conversion to whatever
this model expect the preprocesin
to the image to be done.
And it's now we can actually
do the predictions.
So in our x if we just print the x, no x.
So you can see it's just the array with
each of those three numbers,
that's the RGB channel of each individual
pixel, and I have tons of them.
So what they can do I can just
say model do the prediction and
provide this list of
continue of our image.
And print out what our model predicted.
So it predicted with 90%,
almost 91% accuracy that we're
looking at African elephant.
ABout 8%, almost 9% it's a Tusker,
and it's India elephant about 0.4%.
Pretty accurate prediction, but what
is interesting is next what I gonna do.
So remember, we're choosing
between a 1,000 classes, right?
And then it kinda curious what was
the number of the neuron activated,
which correspond to African elephant.
And I can simply just look at the index
of this neuron and it was 386,000, right?
So why am I caring about this index?
Well, it's basically what
I will be doing next,
I will try to look at
the last convolutional layer.
And we'll simply try to find
all the activated connections,
which activated this neuron,
300 whatever the number was, 386, right?
I can just see which of
the location of the neurons which
activated that last neuron.
It basically allows me to do
the predictions which area of
the image my neuron network was looking at
when doing the prediction that
we looking at the elephant.
So to some degree I'm trying
to visualize where my narrow
convolution neural network is paying
attention while doing the prediction.
So I said that,
neuron networks are black boxes, right?
And the way it weights and
biases are adjusted, it is a mystery,
to some degree it is and a lot depends
on the initial way distributions, right?
And for instance, if you initialize
your model with one random numbers, but
then reinitialize them.
You might get completely different
numbers of weights and biases, right?
But with this thing, at least I can
visualize or get some understanding
where the neural network is looking
at from the making a prediction.
And that's that's what I'm doing here.
I'm just grabbing the last
convolutional layer so
block5_conv3, if we look at the topology,
it's right before our fully
connected neuron networks.
Before the MaxPooling, Block5_conv3,
that's our lost convolutional layer.
And again, What I can see,
I can see at all
the gradients which initialized
my African elephant output.
So model output,
that's our last layer, right?
So and
we just looking at this last neuron, and
we can find all of those
activations where they happen.
So, it's kinda just looking
at those filters and
in our last convolutional layer,
it was 7 by 7 pixels.
That was the result of all the previous
convolutions and we can see which
of those particular 7 by 7 pixels were the
most active when they did the prediction.
That we're looking at the elephant.
And I can build the,
I'm not sure if I already executed this
block of code, so
let's just run it once again.
Yeah, I can visualize the heatmap now.
So heatmap just saying here that
this region was the one which
resulted into the prediction that
I'm looking at the elephant.
And it doesn't really give me
a lot of useful information.
So I can actually overlay this heatmap
on top of the original image to
actually visualize what is happening.
So apparently the prediction was done
because we're looking at the heads of
the elephant and
Tosca yes of the mother elephant.
[LAUGH] And the thing is, you can play
with this pretty much with any picture,
do you want to try something,
you just for fun?
>> I have a question.
>> Yes.
>> So I know that you said that we already
trained the model like on elephants,
I assume.
>> Yes.
>> And then it was expecting an array of
at least three different assume elephants,
some sort of images.
Why did we do the one
image in this example?
Was it just for
ease in this specific case?
Sorry, why didn't we do three creative
commons, different elephants?
>> So I think you asking about
the prediction when we done
that there is African wlephant,
there's tusker and Indian elephant.
>> Towards the beginning, your input to.
>> My input, you mean just this image?
>> Yeah.
You said that it was expecting an array of
at least three different images.
>> No.
>> And then, we just copied the image.
>> So, the way how our model
usually trained with those VGG
systems they using mini batches.
So, if you look at the input layer,
dimensionality is the following,
none which just correspond to
different number from 1 to
as many as you want images.
And those images all supposed to
have 224 by 224 with 3 channels.
So, just because we have
this non it means that our
model expecting the list of images.
And the reason why this is common and
you will see it with usually pre trained
models is they using technique
called mini batching training.
And basically,
when you're calculating the gradients,
kind of how you need to change
those weights and biases.
You're not doing that only by looking at
the single image, but you look at multiple
images and calculating what should be
the average change of your weights and
biases to avoid kind of noisy
change of your weights and biases.
So just can reduce the noisiness
of those changes and
get more stability of the training.
We introducing those mini batches and
there is another benefits when
you do a mini batch training.
It can actually utilize vectorization,
it means that you can use CMD
instructions which you can skip explain.
[LAUGH] But it can significantly
improve the performance and
when I'm talking about
performance in this case.
It's not the accuracy of the model, but
it's just computational performance.
Just because you can do
the operations on individual images
simultaneously in parallel
with those CMD instructions.
So mini batching is a good way to get
to a more general solution, right?
Just because you avoid too many noises,
because let's say you provide only one
image of elephant when you train, right?
And your whole model will kind of move
toward that recognizing one elephant,
right?
But what about other 999 classes?
We most probably gonna decrease the weight
which correspond to those classes.
So to avoid this type of problem, we're
processing several images simultaneously.
And mini batch exercise can be anything
from 16 images to thousand images
simultaneously.
And it will simply look at what's the best
way to satisfy all of those classes.
And mini batching is highly recommended
if you have a lot of classes like
in this case, instead of 10, digit,
10 classes we have thousands.
So to have, get a better distribution
of weights and bias modification,
it's basically that's why
we're using mini batches.
And we need to provide list of images
to our model when we training and
also when we predicted